- Now let's talk about validations with Spring MVC.
The first question we have to ask ourselves is
why are validations needed?
Well, in your application,
in a web application, there are a lot of pages
that you end up exposing to the users.
And the users can then enter all kinds of data
on the form fields on your GS piece.
So when this data is submitted and reaches the server side,
it is necessary that we validate the correctness of it.
If we don't, then we may end up consuming bad
or incorrect data in our systems,
and we may even persist it in our data storage systems.
Now, one may argue,
why can't these validations be done on the client side?
Of course, we can.
We can grab all the form fields,
write a JavaScript code to run some sanity checks
to validate those inputs.
However, unfortunately,
there's a very high probability that these validations
will be over [mumbles] from the client's side.
And by the time the data reaches the server side
it's already bad data again.
That's exactly why we need to run
another layer of validations on the server side
and that's exactly why we're looking at this topic
of validations with Spring MVC.
Now Spring MVC framework offers you a couple
of options to do this.
One is there's a validator interface that it has exposed.
So as a developer you write a class
which implements that interface
and provide a logic to the validate method
for validations to your application's specific objects.
Then ask Spring MVC to enable it for you
and it will run the validations.
The other option is using Java Specification
Request 380 Bean Validation API.
That's pretty much the standard today
and Spring MVC has also integrated very well with it.
So what do we do in this?
We have our JavaBeans.
We are just going to make sure that we put
the appropriate annotations on each of the attributes
inside your Java object,
which will define the validation rules.
Then we ask Spring MVC to enable those validations
and then the framework is going to carry
out the validations according to the roots.
In the next demo,
we are going to validate few fields
of the registration form by using approach number two.
And I would really like to advise the audience
to stick to the second approach
of using JSR380 Bean validation,
because that is the standard practice
to validate data in the Java world today.